chore(blog): add-gravitee-sponsorship-2025 (#4257)
asyncapi/website: markdown/blog/gravitee-sponsorship-2025.md

## More Than Sponsorship: Investing in Community-Driven Growth

Gravitee’s renewed platinum sponsorship isn’t just a logo on a banner, it’s a commitment to sustainable, community-first growth. In 2024, their support helped us organize inclusive, impactful gatherings like AsyncAPI Conf Online and the Conference on Tour series now branded as the AsyncAPI Conference.
In 2025, their contribution helps us go even bigger, with in-person conferences in Lagos, Munich, Bangalore, London, Paris, and Online each designed to bring the AsyncAPI community closer together across regions and time zones. Gravitee’s support enables:

- Operational and travel cost for events.
- Broader outreach and visibility in growing the AsyncAPI communities around the world.
- Resources for speakers and panelists from diverse backgrounds.

When we say Gravitee is helping us “hold nothing back,” we mean it, they’re helping build an ecosystem where everyone can contribute, learn, and grow, no matter their location or technical background.

## Gravitee + AsyncAPI: A Real-World Use Case

> Behind Gravitee’s sponsorship is a real, practical investment in using the AsyncAPI specification to build and manage asynchronous APIs. Gravitee enables organizations to work seamlessly across protocols like [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/), [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), and [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API) using the AsyncAPI spec as a foundation for documentation, governance, and developer experience. This approach strengthens discoverability and observability across distributed systems, making Gravitee a natural ally in advancing AsyncAPI’s mission and ecosystem.

Reviewer: There's repetition with line 28. Make section/line 28 focus on sponsorship, and then section/line 38 focus on use cases.

---
title: "Gravitee Returns as a Platinum Sponsor: Strengthening the AsyncAPI Ecosystem Across 2025"
date: 2025-07-25T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Project Status
  - Marketing
cover: /img/posts/marketing-images/gravitee-community.webp
authors:
  - name: Atinuke Oluwabamikemi Kayode
    photo: /img/avatars/bami.webp
    link: https://www.linkedin.com/in/atinuke-oluwabamikemi-kayode-5b838b1b7/
    byline: AsyncAPI Community Marketing Specialist
excerpt: 'Gravitee returns as a Platinum Sponsor, strengthening the AsyncAPI community and conference across 2025.'
---

We’re happy to have Gravitee return as a platinum sponsor for both the AsyncAPI community and the AsyncAPI Conferences in 2025! Their renewed partnership is not only a show of continued support but also a reflection of their belief in the power of open standards, community-driven innovation, and modern API ecosystems.
Gravitee has long been part of AsyncAPI’s journey, not just as a sponsor but as an adopter, contributor, and champion of event-driven architectures (EDAs) that are secure, discoverable, and truly developer-first.

### A Shared Vision: Open Collaboration, Stronger Infrastructure

> AsyncAPI’s mission is to make working with event-driven systems as seamless as working with REST. That mission only becomes a reality when organizations across industries join forces to push it forward sharing knowledge, building tooling, contributing to the spec, and supporting our diverse global community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI’s mission is to make working with event-driven systems as seamless as it is working with REST. That mission only becomes a reality when organizations across industries join forces to push it forward sharing knowledge, building tooling, contributing to the spec, and supporting our diverse global community.
```

This alignment has made Gravitee a natural supporter of AsyncAPI’s mission and growth.

### More Than Sponsorship: Investing in Community-Driven Growth

Gravitee’s renewed platinum sponsorship isn’t just a logo on a banner, it’s a commitment to sustainable, community-first growth. In 2024, their support helped us organize inclusive, impactful gatherings like AsyncAPI Conf Online and the Conference on Tour series now branded as the AsyncAPI Conference.
In 2025, their contribution helps us go even bigger, with in-person conferences in Lagos, Munich, Bangalore, London, Paris, and Online each designed to bring the AsyncAPI community closer together across regions and time zones. Gravitee’s support enables:

- Operational and travel cost for events
- Broader outreach and visibility in growing async API communities around the world
- Resources for speakers and panelists from diverse backgrounds
- When we say Gravitee is helping us “hold nothing back,” we mean it, they’re helping build an ecosystem where everyone can contribute, learn, and grow, no matter their location or technical background.

### Gravitee + AsyncAPI: A Real-World Use Case

> Behind the sponsorship is a real, practical investment in using AsyncAPI to build and manage asynchronous APIs. Gravitee enables organizations to work seamlessly across protocols like Kafka, MQTT, and WebSockets using the AsyncAPI spec as a foundation for documentation, governance, and developer experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Behind the sponsorship is a real, practical investment in using AsyncAPI to build and manage asynchronous APIs. Gravitee enables organizations to work seamlessly across protocols like [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/), [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), and [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API) using the AsyncAPI spec as a foundation for documentation, governance, and developer experience.
```

Reviewer: no need for links here @CBID2

> - By adopting AsyncAPI, Gravitee:
> - Enables better **discoverability** of event-driven APIs
> - Enforces consistent **governance** across async interfaces
> - Improves **observability** for systems using asynchronous messaging
> - Reduces the **complexity** of managing hybrid architectures (REST + async)
> This real-world usage supports AsyncAPI’s vision of making event-driven APIs easier to design, consume, and scale.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
By adopting AsyncAPI, Gravitee:
- Enables better **discoverability** of event-driven APIs
- Enforces consistent **governance** across async interfaces
- Improves **observability** for systems using asynchronous messaging
- Reduces the **complexity** of managing hybrid architectures (REST + async)

This real-world usage supports AsyncAPI’s vision of making event-driven APIs easier to design, consume, and scale.
```

### The Road Ahead: AsyncAPI x Gravitee in 2025

As AsyncAPI continues to grow, expanding its tooling, maintainership, and governance, Gravitee’s support will help us scale with intention and care. From better docs and contributor onboarding, to new design systems and international webinars, Gravitee’s sponsorship helps bring these initiatives to life.
We're especially thrilled to have them with us for **AsyncAPI Conf 2025**, as we bring together contributors, users, and curious minds across continents. Gravitee's support ensures that we can keep these conferences accessible and meaningful for all.

> 💜 Thank you, Gravitee, for standing with us, and for continuing to believe in the power of open, asynchronous systems.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
💜 Thank you Gravitee for standing with us, and continuing to believe in the power of open, asynchronous systems.
```

Stay Connected
Explore Gravitee: [gravitee.io](https://www.gravitee.io)
Follow Gravitee on:
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gravitee-io/posts/?feedView=all)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/Graviteesource)
- [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/GraviteeSource)

> Stay tuned for more updates as we get closer to more AsyncAPI Conference 2025!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Stay Connected
If you want to learn more about Gravitee, check out their [website](https://www.gravitee.io) and their social media links below:
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/gravitee-io/posts/?feedView=all)
- [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/Graviteesource)
- [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/GraviteeSource)

Stay tuned for more updates as we get closer to AsyncAPI Conference 2025!
```

By adopting and championing the AsyncAPI specification, Gravitee empowers teams to seamlessly design, manage, and secure asynchronous APIs such as Kafka, alongside traditional REST APIs. This approach enhances discoverability, governance, and observability across modern distributed systems, helping organizations unlock the full potential of event-based communication.
This alignment has made Gravitee a natural supporter of AsyncAPI’s mission and growth.

## More Than Sponsorship: Investing in Community-Driven Growth

Gravitee’s renewed platinum sponsorship isn’t just a logo on a banner, it’s a commitment to sustainable, community-first growth. In 2024, their support helped us organize inclusive, impactful gatherings like AsyncAPI Conf Online and the Conference on Tour series now branded as the AsyncAPI Conference.
In 2025, their contribution helps us go even bigger, with in-person conferences in Lagos, Munich, Bangalore, London, Paris, and Online each designed to bring the AsyncAPI community closer together across regions and time zones. Gravitee’s support enables:

- Operational and travel cost for events

> - Broader outreach and visibility in growing async API communities around the world

Reviewer 5: The word `async` confuses a bit and can mistakenly be treated like a typo of the organization name. Which one is it?
> in growing AsyncAPI communities around the world

or 

> in growing asynchronous API-related communities around the world

Reviewer 3: I think the sentence is talking about AsyncAPI communities @bandantonio.

Reviewer: The sentence needs to have clarity then to avoid such confusion

Author: I agree

- Resources for speakers and panelists from diverse backgrounds

When we say Gravitee is helping us “hold nothing back,” we mean it, they’re helping build an ecosystem where everyone can contribute, learn, and grow, no matter their location or technical background.

## Gravitee + AsyncAPI: A Real-World Use Case

> Behind the sponsorship is a real, practical investment in using AsyncAPI to build and manage asynchronous APIs. Gravitee enables organizations to work seamlessly across protocols like [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/), [MQTT](https://mqtt.org/), and [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebSockets_API) using the AsyncAPI spec as a foundation for documentation, governance, and developer experience.

Reviewer 5: > Gravitee enables organizations to work seamlessly across protocols

Basically, it repeats the same idea mentioned earlier in slightly different words (line 26). I assume that may be intentional

By adopting AsyncAPI, Gravitee:
- Enables better **discoverability** of event-driven APIs
- Enforces consistent **governance** across async interfaces
- Improves **observability** for systems using asynchronous messaging
- Reduces the **complexity** of managing hybrid architectures (REST + async)
This real-world usage supports AsyncAPI’s vision of making event-driven APIs easier to design, consume, and scale.

## The Road Ahead: AsyncAPI x Gravitee in 2025

As AsyncAPI continues to grow, expanding its tooling, maintainership, and governance, Gravitee’s support will help us scale with intention and care. From better docs and contributor onboarding, to new design systems and international webinars, Gravitee’s sponsorship helps bring these initiatives to life.

> We're especially thrilled to have them with us for **AsyncAPI Conf 2025**, as we bring together contributors, users, and curious minds across continents. Gravitee's support ensures that we can keep these conferences accessible and meaningful for all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're especially thrilled to have them with us at the **AsyncAPI Conference 2025**, as we bring together contributors, users, and curious minds from across the globe. Gravitee's support ensures that we can keep these conferences accessible and meaningful for all.
```
